								   AWS MCQ'S





1. Which of the following is the central application in the AWS portfolio?
A) Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
B) Amazon Simple Queue Service
C) Amazon Simple Notification Service
D) Amazon Simple Storage System

1ans=A

2. Which of the following is an online backup and storage system?
A) Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
B) Amazon Simple Queue Service
C) Amazon Simple Notification Service
D) Amazon Simple Storage System

2ans=D

3.Which of the following is a system for creating block level storage devices that can be used for Amazon Machine Instances in EC2?
A) CloudWatch
B) Amazon Elastic Block Store
C) AWS Import/Export
D) All of the mentioned

3ans=B

4.You want to use an Amazon EC2 instance for a batch processing workload. What would be the best Amazon EC2 instance type to use?
A)General purpose
B)Memory optimized
C)Compute optimized
D)Storage optimized

4ans=C

5.What are the contract length options for Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances? (Select TWO.)
A)1 year
B)2 years
C)3 years
D)4 years
E)5 years

5ans= A and C

6.You want to deploy and manage containerized applications. Which service should you use?
A)AWS Lambda
B)Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)
C)Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)
D)Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)

6ans=D

7.Which process is an example of Elastic Load Balancing?
A.Ensuring that no single Amazon EC2 instance has to carry the full workload on its own
B.Removing unneeded Amazon EC2 instances when demand is low
C.Adding a second Amazon EC2 instance during an online store’s popular scale
D.Automatically adjusting the number of Amazon EC2 instances to meet demand

7ans=A

8.You want to deploy and manage containerized applications. Which service should you use?
A.AWS Lambda
B.Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)
C.Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS)
D.Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)

8ans=D

9.Your company has an application that uses Amazon EC2 instances to run the customer-facing website and Amazon RDS database instances to store customers’ personal information. How should the developer configure the VPC according to best practices?
A.Place the Amazon EC2 instances in a private subnet and the Amazon RDS database instances in a public subnet.
B.Place the Amazon EC2 instances in a public subnet and the Amazon RDS database instances in a private subnet.
C.Place the Amazon EC2 instances and the Amazon RDS database instances in a public subnet.
D.Place the Amazon EC2 instances and the Amazon RDS database instances in a private subnet.

9ans=B

10.Which component or service can be used to establish a private dedicated connection between your company’s data center and AWS?
A.Private subnet
B.DNS
C.AWS Direct Connect
D.Amazon CloudFront

10ans=C

11.Which statement best describes security groups?
A.They are stateful and deny all inbound traffic by default.
B.They are stateful and allow all inbound traffic by default.
C.They are stateless and deny all inbound traffic by default.
D.They are stateless and allow all inbound traffic by default.

11ans=A

12.Which component is used to connect a VPC to the internet?
A.Public subnet
B.Edge location
C.Security group
D.Internet gateway

12ans=D

13.Which service is used to manage the DNS records for domain names?
A.Amazon Virtual Private Cloud
B.AWS Direct Connect
C.Amazon CloudFront
D.Amazon Route 53

13ans=D

14.Which Amazon S3 storage classes are optimized for archival data? (Select TWO.)
A.S3 Standard
B.S3 Glacier
C.S3 Intelligent-Tiering
D.S3 Standard-IA
E.S3 Glacier Deep Archive

14ans=B AND E

15.Which statement or statements are TRUE about Amazon EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems?
A.EBS volumes store data within a single Availability Zone. Amazon EFS file systems store data across multiple Availability Zones.
B.EBS volumes store data across multiple Availability Zones. Amazon EFS file systems store data within a single Availability Zone.
C.EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems both store data within a single Availability Zone.
D.EBS volumes and Amazon EFS file systems both store data across multiple Availability Zones.

15ans=A